Results/2018-10-31_filtered-peaks/README.md, before:

# Summary

In this folder, I'm attempting to filter the peaks according to a few metrics to see if I can make the lists more stringent for each sample.
Previous analyses in the other `Results/` folders were a bit strange and seemed to be coming from the noise in off-peak reads and in the called peaks themselves.

I'm attempting to address this by doing a couple things:

1. Find the trade-off between q-value and number of peaks
2. Find the percentage of non-peak reads (i.e. noise)

## Results

### q-value vs Peak Counts

![q-value vs peaks](q-threshold_vs_peak-counts.png)

Using a q-value cutoff of -log10(q) > 2.5 (i.e. q <~ 0.003) returns between 20-50% of peaks with p < 0.01.
For a variety of thresholds, here are the peak counts:

#### q <= 0.1 (-log10(q) >= 1)

| Condition | Replicate | N      |
| --------- | --------- | ------ |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 117909 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 141996 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 49215  |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 91942  |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 103708 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 85752  |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 52970  |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 69682  |

#### q <= 0.01 (-log10(q) >= 2)

| Condition | Replicate | N     |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 86752 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 98908 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 22258 |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 60912 |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 56766 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 56128 |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 29871 |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 41225 |

#### q <~ 0.003 (-log10(q) >= 2.5)

| Condition | Replicate | N     |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 71492 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 81956 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 17807 |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 48520 |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 45668 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 45077 |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 23358 |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 35189 |

#### q <= 0.001 (-log10(q) >= 3)

| Condition | Replicate | N     |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 63617 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 74254 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 13981 |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 40017 |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 39886 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 37507 |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 19309 |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 29300 |

#### q <= 0.0001 (-log10(q) >= 4)

| Condition | Replicate | N     |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 47020 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 57409 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 9669  |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 30940 |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 29567 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 29078 |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 14569 |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 22475 |

### Off-peak noise

I generated filtered peak lists based on different q-value thresholds via `Rscript filter-peaks.R`.

The number of total (non-duplicate) reads for each sample is as follows (as determined via `count-mapped-reads.sh`):

| Condition | Replicate | Mapped Reads |
| --------- | --------- | ------------ |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 15262836     |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 27004173     |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 25483905     |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 25376670     |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 30794437     |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 33802938     |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 30224754     |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 33243705     |

I then counted the number of reads that align to the peaks filtered at various thresholds via `qsub count-reads-in-peaks.sh`.

We get the following percentages for reads called within peaks:

![Reads called within peaks for each sample](reads-within-peaks.png)

As can be seen in the figure above, the drop-offs are pretty linear wrt the threshold in log space.
Using a threshold of 2.5 is a good middle-of-the-pack cutoff with peak counts in the 17K - 82K range across all samples.

The 1stKD has the best signal-to-noise ratio for its samples, since the percentage of reads in peaks is ~ 18% for this threshold, whereas for the 2ndKD it's beween 2.5-8%, and 5-10% for the controls.

## Conclusions

Using a q-value threshold of -log10(q) >= 2.5 is a good threshold that keeps reasonable read counts and moderate signal-to-noise ratios across all samples.
I'll be using the peak list from these filtered peaks moving forward.

Commit message:

Filtered out X, Y, and non-canonical chromosomes
Same overall results as before, just with filtered peaks that are only on chr1-22

Results/2018-10-31_filtered-peaks/README.md, after:

# Summary

In this folder, I'm attempting to filter the peaks according to a few metrics to see if I can make the lists more stringent for each sample.
Previous analyses in the other `Results/` folders were a bit strange and seemed to be coming from the noise in off-peak reads and in the called peaks themselves.

I'm attempting to address this by doing a couple things:

1. Find the trade-off between q-value and number of peaks
2. Find the percentage of non-peak reads (i.e. noise)

## Results

### q-value vs Peak Counts

![q-value vs peaks](q-threshold_vs_peak-counts.png)

Using a q-value cutoff of -log10(q) > 2.5 (i.e. q <~ 0.003) returns between 20-50% of peaks with p < 0.01.
For a variety of thresholds, here are the peak counts:

#### q <= 0.1 (-log10(q) >= 1)

| Condition | Replicate | N      |
| --------- | --------- | ------ |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 117909 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 141996 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 49215  |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 91942  |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 103708 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 85752  |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 52970  |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 69682  |

#### q <= 0.01 (-log10(q) >= 2)

| Condition | Replicate | N     |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 86752 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 98908 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 22258 |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 60912 |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 56766 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 56128 |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 29871 |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 41225 |

#### q <~ 0.003 (-log10(q) >= 2.5)

| Condition | Replicate | N     |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 71492 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 81956 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 17807 |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 48520 |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 45668 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 45077 |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 23358 |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 35189 |

#### q <= 0.001 (-log10(q) >= 3)

| Condition | Replicate | N     |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 63617 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 74254 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 13981 |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 40017 |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 39886 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 37507 |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 19309 |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 29300 |

#### q <= 0.0001 (-log10(q) >= 4)

| Condition | Replicate | N     |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 47020 |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 57409 |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 9669  |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 30940 |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 29567 |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 29078 |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 14569 |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 22475 |

### Off-peak noise

I generated filtered peak lists based on different q-value thresholds via `Rscript filter-peaks.R`.
Chr X, Y, MT, and non-canonical chromosomes were also removed with `sh filter-noncanonical-chrs.sh`.

The number of total (non-duplicate) reads for each sample is as follows (as determined via `count-mapped-reads.sh`):

| Condition | Replicate | Mapped Reads |
| --------- | --------- | ------------ |
| 1stKD     | 1         | 15262836     |
| 1stKD     | 2         | 27004173     |
| 2ndKD     | 1         | 25483905     |
| 2ndKD     | 2         | 25376670     |
| 2ndKD     | 3         | 30794437     |
| Ctrl      | 1         | 33802938     |
| Ctrl      | 2         | 30224754     |
| Ctrl      | 3         | 33243705     |

I then counted the number of reads that align to the peaks filtered at various thresholds via `qsub count-reads-in-peaks.sh`.

We get the following percentages for reads called within peaks (generated via `Rscript plot-reads-in-peaks.R`):

![Reads called within peaks for each sample](reads-within-peaks.png)

As can be seen in the figure above, the drop-offs are pretty linear wrt the threshold in log space.
Using a threshold of 2.5 is a good middle-of-the-pack cutoff with peak counts in the 17K - 82K range across all samples.

The 1stKD has the best signal-to-noise ratio for its samples, since the percentage of reads in peaks is ~ 18% for this threshold, whereas for the 2ndKD it's beween 2.5-8%, and 5-10% for the controls.

## Conclusions

Using a q-value threshold of -log10(q) >= 2.5 is a good threshold that keeps reasonable read counts and moderate signal-to-noise ratios across all samples.
I'll be using the peak list from these filtered peaks moving forward.
